
# Final Report
## Abstract
United States have a higher rate of police killings with 3 people being killed per day on an average. The factors that impact these killings needs to be analysed and studied to understand different aspects leading to the killings. The killings might be impacted by factors like ethnicity, income levels, education etc and also determine the possibility of being an victim of the killings. The analysis include Preprocessing the data by use of techniques like removing outliers, eliminating noise and filling out missing values in an appropriate manner. Then process the data to find the useful information by visualizing it for clear understanding by using histograms, scatter plots etc. Then Data Mining techniques such as Feature Selection, Decision Tree Classification, K-Means Clustering, Hierarchial and Agglomerative Clustering, Correlation Analysis, Nearest Neighbour Classification, and Pricipal Component Analysis will be applied to further analyse the data.
## Conclusion
We have built the Classification Models to classify the cause of police killings to arrive at the cause of killing based on different features and also determine the cause of killing when the cause is unknown. We found out that the police killings due to gunshot and taser has been comparatively more in the cities with lower h_income ( household income ) when compared to cities with medium and higher h_income. Subjects carrying no arms or carrying a knife died only in custody whereas subjects carrying arms are prone to gunshots, death in custody, taser and struck by vehicle but the subjects disputed with police died either in custody, due to taser or struck by vehicle. K-Nearest Neighbour classifier model gave us the accuracy score of 0.91 percentage whereas Decision Tree Classifier model gave an accuracy ranging between 0.8 and 0.85 
